the fictitious force is indistinguishable from the force due to a uniform gravitational field $\mathbf{g} = -\mathbf{A}$. both forces are constant and proportional to the mass.

in a local gravitation field, a particle of mass $m$ experiences a force $\mathbf{F} = m\mathbf{g}$.
however, in a non-inertial system uniformly accelerating at $\mathbf{A} = -\mathbf{g}$, then it also experiences a force $\mathbf{F}_{fict} = -m\mathbf{A} = m\mathbf{g}$. so, is there any way to distinguish between these situations?

$\rightarrow$ Einstein "gedanken" experiment ?
	- a man is holding an apple in an elevator at rest in gravitational field $g$. it falls with downward acceleration $a = g$.
	- now, consider the same man in the same elevator, but the elevator is accelerating upward at rate $a = g$. when the man drops the elevator, it appears to fall towards the ground at the same rate--thus, there's no way to distinguish between the effect of the elevator and the effect of a gravitational field.
	- say the elevator is freely falling in the gravitational field. both the elevator and its contents accelerate at rate g, so if the man drops the apple, it will float as if it were motionless in free space. 
this is known as the **principle of equivalence**:
	there is no way to distinguish locally between a uniform gravitational acceleration $\mathbf{g}$ and the acceleration of a coordinate system $\mathbf{A} = -\mathbf{g}$.

The word "locally" is key here--since the elevator is closed off, there is no outside source. however, the difference between a real field and an accelerating coordinate system is the locality--the two are only indistinguishable on very small scales.

some examples of principle of equivalence relevance:
- [[example - the driving force of the tides]]
- [[example - equilibrium height of the tides]]

The tides offer evidence that the Earth is in free fall towards the Sun--there are two tides a day. However, that we can sense the sun's gravitational field does not contradict the principal of equivalence, because the evidence is decidedly nonlocal.

